#summary Migration - incompatible changes from 1.0M4 to 1.0M5

=== Reduced unnecessarily coupling with Spring framework (Ticket #117 ) ===

`RuntimeModule` interface added. `ModuleStateHolder` methods 

{{{
ConfigurableApplicationContext getRootModuleContext();
ConfigurableApplicationContext getModule(String name);
Map<String, ConfigurableApplicationContext> getModuleContexts();
void putModule(String name, ConfigurableApplicationContext context);
ConfigurableApplicationContext removeModule(String name);
}}}

have been renamed to

{{{
RuntimeModule getRootModule();
RuntimeModule getModule(String name);
Map<String, RuntimeModule> getRuntimeModules();
void putModule(String name, RuntimeModule context);
RuntimeModule removeModule(String name);
}}}

----

`ApplicationContextLoader` moved from `org.impalaframework.module` to `org.impalaframework.module.spring`.

----

`ModuleLoader` interface split into `ModuleLoader` and `SpringModuleLaoder`.
Implementation classes moved to `org.impalaframework.module.spring.loader`.

----

Package `org.impalaframework.bean` has been moved to `org.impalaframework.spring.bean`.

----

Moved Spring-related classes from dynamic property framework to `org.impalaframework.spring.config`:

{{{
DynamicPropertiesFactoryBean.java
DynamicPropertySource.java
ExternalDynamicPropertySource.java
}}}

----

Split ModuleLoaderRegistry into ModuleLoaderRegistry and DelegatingContextLoaderRegistry. The DelegatingContextLoaderRegistry
holds DelegatingContextLoaders, which are Spring-specific.

Moved DelegatingContextLoader interface to `org.impalaframework.module.spring`.

----

Moved TypeReaderRegistryFactoryBean to org.impalaframework.module.spring.type

---- 

All service exporter classes have been moved to org.impalaframework.spring.service.exporter. These include:

{{{
ModuleArrayContributionExporter.java
AutoRegisteringModuleContributionExporter.java
BaseModuleContributionExporter.java
ModuleContributionPostProcessor.java
ModuleContributionUtils.java
ServiceArrayRegistryExporter.java
ServiceRegistryExporter.java
}}}

*NOTE: this change is likely to break backward compatibility for most clients.*

*Area affected:* Impala-export definitions in Spring configuration file.

----

`ContributionProxyFactoryBean` moved from `org.impalaframework.spring.module` to 
`org.impalaframework.spring.service.proxy`.

*NOTE: this change is likely to break backward compatibility for most clients.*

*Area affected:* Impala-export definitions in Spring configuration file.

----

Impala no longer directly uses Spring application context. It instead exposes a ModuleRuntime object which could be a SpringModuleRuntime instance.

Hence the following methods have changed:

{{{
public static ApplicationContext getRootContext()
public static ApplicationContext getModuleContext(String moduleName)
}}}

{{{
public static RuntimeModule getRootRuntimeModule()
public static RuntimeModule getRuntimeModule(String moduleName)
}}}

=== ModuleDefinition and RootModuleDefinition should be moved to org.impalaframework.module (Ticket #131 ) ===

`ModuleDefinition`, `ModuleDefinitionSource` and `RootModuleDefinition` have been moved from
`org.impalaframework.module.definition` to `org.impalaframework.module`.

*NOTE: this change is likely to break backward compatibility in integration tests for most clients.*

*Area affected:* Integration Tests


