#summary First Steps

= First steps =

This introduction is an abridged version of the GettingStarted series. For a more detailed introduction, see [GettingStarted this link].

== Setup Steps ==

First, start by downloading the latest snapshot distribution of Impala from the subversion repository.

{{{
http://impala.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/impala/impala/dist/impala-SNAPSHOT.zip
}}}

or the relevant distribution from [http://code.google.com/p/impala/downloads/list the Impala downloads page].

You can then unzip the Impala distribution:

{{{
unzip impala-SNAPSHOT.zip
}}}

Ensure that you have the IMPALA_HOME environment property set correctly to the unzipped file location.
Run the following command:

{{{
ant -f scaffold-build.xml scaffold:create -Dimpala.home=./
}}}

(Note the `-Dproject.version=` flag should be set to the Impala version release. This flag will no longer be necessary shortly.

Follow the interactive steps to determine the Impala new workspace location, root module name, child module name, web module name, test project name, and repository folder name. 

First, go the main newly created workspace's root project, and run the following two commands:

{{{
cd [workspace location]/scaffold/main
ant fetch get
}}}

Start Eclipse in the newly created workspace. Use the menus File -> Import ... -> General -> Existing Projects Into Workspace. When prompted, set the import base directory to the workspace root directory. 
Select all of the projects and import them.

== Running Impala == 

  * Full suite (as JUnit test): run AllTests
  * Individual integration test (as JUnit test): run `MessageIntegrationTest` and/or `ProjectMessageIntegrationTest`
  * Individual integration test (as Java application): run `MessageIntegrationTest` and/or `ProjectMessageIntegrationTest` as Java application
  * Web application: run `StartServer` as Java application. Assuming you used `web` as your web module name, then verify using `http://localhost:8080/web/message.htm`
  
  
  