#summary Describes how to reload modules using JMX

== Background ==

Impala also supports reloading of modules using a JMX interface. This allows you to explicitly initiate a module reload, 
and does not require you having to have any background monitoring of changes in module contents.

== Setup ==

When Impala starts up it automatically exposes a JMX bean under the key `impala:service=moduleManagementOperations`, which 
includes an operation to invoke a module reload. Impala uses [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/2.5.x/reference/jmx.html Spring JMX].

By default Impala will use Spring JMX to create a new JMX MBean server to host MBeans. You can tell Spring to locate an existing 
MBean server using the _impala.properties_ entry.

{{{
jmx.locate.existing.server=true
}}}

By default you will be able to connect to the MBean server using [http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/management/jconsole.html JConsole], but only from the local machine.

Other options for connecting to the JMX are as follows:

*1) Use the MX4J web interface*

To enable this, you need to add the [http://mx4j.sourceforge.net/ MX4J] libraries into your application's classpath.

Then add the following entries into _impala.properties_:

{{{
expose.mx4j.adaptor=true
jmx.adaptor.port=8003
}}}

This will start an HTTP server on port 8003. At present, this is not a secure interface, so should be used with caution.

*2) Add a JSR-160 Connector *

The [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/2.5.x/reference/jmx.html Spring JMX] explains how to set up a JSR-160 connector to your MBean server.
You can easily add the necessary support by adding an extra Spring beans to your Impala configuration:

{{{
extra.locations=custom-jmx-config.xml
}}}

Simply deploy the additional Spring bean configuration file in your web application's class path (e.g. under _/WEB-INF/classses_). 

Note that this technique can be used to customise the creation of your MBean server and other aspects of the JMX configuration.
