#summary Describes how to set up 'in-module' JSPs

== Background ==

When writing Java applications with JSP as the view technology, the normal practice is to put JSPs in the root context directory, so some subdirectory below this.
This works fine with Impala-based applications. However, when writing multi-module web applications, you typically want all your module resources to be
contained within the module. This includes JavaScript files, CSS files, resources, etc. as well as JSPs.

With Freemarker and other view technologies, setting up view templates to be hosted within a web module is very straightforward.
With JSPs, it's a bit more complex, because typically JSP container is typically provided by the servlet container rather than the application itself.

With Impala, setting up JSPs is accomplished by embedding the Tomcat Jetty web container in the application, and requires the following steps.

*Note*: as of writing I am still to get JSP support to work on Tomcat. As of r5323, it has only been verified to work using Jetty as the servlet container. 

== Setup ==

1) Add the Tomcat Jasper runtime libraries into your application:

For example, from _dependencies.txt_:
{{{
jetty from tomcat:jasper-runtime:5.5.15 source=false
jetty from tomcat:jasper-compiler:5.5.15 source=false
jetty from tomcat:jasper-compiler-jdt:5.5.15 source=false
}}}

or 

{{{
provided from org.apache.tomcat:jasper:6.0.20
provided from org.apache.tomcat:jasper-el:6.0.20
provided from org.apache.tomcat:jasper-jdt:6.0.20
provided from org.apache.tomcat:juli:6.0.20
}}}

The equivalent for the latter is shown below:

{{{
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.tomcat</groupId>
	<artifactId>jasper</artifactId>
	<version>6.0.20</version>
	<scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.tomcat</groupId>
	<artifactId>jasper-el</artifactId>
	<version>6.0.20</version>
	<scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.tomcat</groupId>
	<artifactId>jasper-jdt</artifactId>
	<version>6.0.20</version>
	<scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.tomcat</groupId>
	<artifactId>juli</artifactId>
	<version>6.0.20</version>
	<scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>	
}}}

2) Add JSP support to the module using the following entry in your web module's application context XML file:

An example is shown below:

{{{
<bean id="maven-jsp" class="org.impalaframework.web.jsp.JasperServletFactoryBean">
	<property name="servletName" value = "maven-jsp"/>
</bean>
}}}

This registers a JSP servlet with the module, which JSP requests to your module can use to service requests.

3) Add the following entry to your application's _web.xml_ file.

{{{
<servlet>
    <servlet-name>JSP</servlet-name>
    <servlet-class>org.impalaframework.web.jsp.ModuleJspServlet</servlet-class>
    <load-on-startup>1</load-on-startup>
</servlet>

<servlet-mapping>
	<servlet-name>JSP</servlet-name>
	<url-pattern>*.jspi</url-pattern>
</servlet-mapping> 
}}}

This allows the servlet container's request dispatcher to route forwarded requests to JSP's to your module-defined JSP servlet.