#summary Page describing how to configure Impala itself

= Overview =

The most important thing to know about Impala configuration is that Impala is itself simply loaded up as a set of Spring beans.

== Load Sequence ==

Just like in plain Spring applications, the Impala `ApplicationContext` can be instantiated in a number of ways. 

The basic process is as follows:

  # The Impala itself is bootstrapped. At this point Impala is just a collection of Spring beans. Unlike the modules themselves, the `ApplicationContext` which backs the Impala runtime remains pretty static through the lifetime of the application.
  # The reading of module definitions takes place. No modules have been loaded, but the runtime will now have an understanding of what modules need to be loaded.
  # The actual loading of modules takes place. The application is ready to service requests.

== Standalone Applications ==

=== Simple Startup ===

With Spring, a standalone
Spring `ApplicationContext` will normally be set up using a call such as:

{{{
new ClassPathXmlApplicationContext(contextLocatons);
}}}

There is a little more indirection in the mechanism for starting up a standalone application context. The
easiest way to do this is to use the static method:

{{{
Impala.init();
}}}

=== Advanced Startup ===

So how do we control how Impala is configured at startup time?

The class `Impala` is really itself just a very thin wrapper with static methods around `OperationsFacade`, which in turn is a facade to the 
various operations Impala exposes. Most of the implementations you are likely to use extends `BaseOperationsFacade`. This
class defines an abstract method

{{{
protected abstract List<String> getBootstrapContextLocations();
}}}

which the concrete class will need to implement.

The default implementation used is `StandaloneOperationsFacade`, which implements this method as follows:

{{{
protected List<String> getBootstrapContextLocations() {

	List<String> locations = new ArrayList<String>();
	locations.add("META-INF/impala-bootstrap.xml");
	locations.add("META-INF/impala-standalone-bootstrap.xml");
	return locations;
}
}}}

It is straightforward to change the actual implementation class used through the system property `FacadeConstants.FACADE_CLASS_NAME`, which translates
to `FacadeConstants.facade.class.name`.

== Web Applications ==

=== Simple Startup ===

For vanilla Spring web applications, using a `ContextLoader` instance set up using a `ContextLoaderListener` in the web application's _web.xml_.

For Impala, the mechanisms is similar with a `ContextLoaderListener` subclass being used:

{{{
<listener>
	<listener-class>org.impalaframework.web.loader.ImpalaContextLoaderListener</listener-class>
</listener>
}}}

=== Advanced Startup ===

With Impala, it's straightforward to vary the `ContextLoader` subclass which is used to bootstrap Impala in a web environment. Simply 
add an extra entry into _web.xml_.

{{{
<context-param>
	<param-name>contextLoaderClassName</param-name>
	<param-value>my.context.loader.subclass.name</param-value>
</context-param>	
}}}

If this element is not present, the default is assumed to be `ExternalModuleContextLoader`.

Changing the `ContextLoader` is appropriate if you want to modify the actual mechanism for bootstrapping Impala in a web application.
If you are happy with this mechanism, but you want to vary the details of the Impala runtime configuration, the easiest thing to do
is to override the Impala Spring bean definitions.

In other words, as with standalone applications, you need to know how to vary the Spring configuration files used to bootstrap Impala.

By default, the Impala context loader looks for a file called `impala.properties` on the web application class path. An example is shown below, 
taken from the [SamplesPetclinic Petclinic sample]:

{{{
bootstrapLocations=bootstrap,web-bootstrap,jmx-bootstrap,web-jar-module-bootstrap
application.version=SNAPSHOT
}}}

The `bootstrapLocations` property can be used to fine tune the Spring context locations, as a comma separated list. 
The first entry in this list corresponds with the entry _META-INF/impala-bootstrap.xml_.
Note that there is a convention that is used which makes listing more concise. if the entry ends with _.xml_, then the full entry is used as is.
However, if it does not, then it is assumed to have the prefix _META-INF/impala-_ and the suffix _.xml_.

The example above is based on modules deployed as jar files in the _WEB-INF/modules_ directory, using the convention _%MODULE_NAME%-%application.snapshot%. 
The _petclinic-hibernate_ module would in this example be found in _WEB-INF/modules/petclinic-hibernate-SNAPSHOT.jar_.

Of course, this scheme would not work running embedded
in Eclipse with modules deployed directly as expanded folders on the file system
The configuration required for this setup is contained in 
`impala-embedded.properties`, also taken from the Petclinic sample:

{{{
#This entry is suitable for auto-reloading
bootstrapLocations=bootstrap,web-bootstrap,jmx-bootstrap,web-listener-bootstrap

#This entry is suitable for using the MX4J console
#bootstrapLocations=bootstrap,web-bootstrap,jmx-bootstrap,jmx-adaptor-bootstrap,web-jmx-bootstrap

#This entry allows JMX access via JConsole only
#bootstrapLocations=bootstrap,web-bootstrap,jmx-bootstrap,web-jmx-bootstrap
}}}

Notice that there are three configurations setup in this file, although obviously only one is active.
The first supports monitoring of module directories for changes, and automatic redeployment of modules.
The second supports module reloading through a JMX console. It also fires up a MX4J web console which can be used for this purpose.
The third option supports JMX reloading of modules, but does not start up the MX4J web application. The built-in JConsole can still be
used, however.

So how do we tell Impala to use `impala-embedded.properties` instead of the default `impala.properties`? 
The answer is found in the class `StartServer`, which is used to start up the Jetty server embedded in Eclipse:

{{{
public class StartServer {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.setProperty("org.mortbay.log.class", StdErrLog.class.getName());
		System.setProperty(WebConstants.BOOTSTRAP_LOCATIONS_RESOURCE_PARAM, "classpath:impala-embedded.properties");
		StartJetty.main(new String[]{"8080", "../petclinic-web/context", "/petclinic-web"});
	}
}
}}}

The system property `bootstrapLocationsResource` is used for this purpose.





