#summary Interfaces used internally within Impala

== Introduction ==

As a casual user of the framework you will rarely need to use the interfaces described below. However, when extending Impala, or developing Impala,
and occasionally when debugging, knowledge of these interfaces can be very useful indeed.

As background for this discussion, it is helpful to bear in mind the processes and operations involved when loading and managing modules.

== Interfaces ==

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/resolver/ModuleLocationResolver.java ModuleLocationResolver] ===

`ModuleLocationResolver` is responsible for determining where to find modules. Impala supports a number of deployment configurations, such as standalone deployment of jar files,
deployment of modules as jar files in a web application's _WEB-INF/modules_ directory, and deployment directly from the _bin_ directory of an Eclipse project on the 
file system. Each of these scenarios requires a different strategy for module loading, and hence a different implementation of `ModuleLocationResolver`.

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/type/TypeReader.java TypeReader] ===

Impala features the concept of a module *type*. Examples include root modules, application modules, servlet modules, etc.
The idea behind `TypeReader` is that each of module types will require its own strategy for reading metadata about the modules.

Type readers support a mechanism for reading module type information from XML (in the form of an `org.w3c.dom.Element` instance) or properties (for example read 
from a properties file.

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/loader/ModuleLoader.java ModuleLoader] ===

Another interface which hangs of module types is `ModuleLoader`. Just as different types of modules need to have their metadata read (by `TypeReader`s),
different types of modules also require different strategies for loading. This covers a range of aspects:
  * provision of a `ClassLoader` for the module.
  * what kind of Spring application context is constructed. For example, web module types need to be backed by instances of `WebApplicationContext`.
  * what `BeanDefinitionReader` is used to extract the bean information.

`ModuleLoader` encapsulates differences that exist between module types in these respects. Module types backed by a `ModuleLoader`
will observe some restrictions on how they are constructed and initialized, with the benefit of reducing the responsibilities of module loader implementations.
However, if these restrictions are inappropriate or cannot be observed, it is possible to allow a module to be backed by a `DelegatingContextLoader`.

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/loader/DelegatingContextLoader.java DelegatingContextLoader] ===

`DelegatingContextLoader` is used as an alternative strategy for module loading to `ModuleLoader`.

Implementations of `DelegatingContextLoader` can be used to back a Spring module for types of modules for which the restrictions which 
apply for `ModuleLoader` implementations is not appropriate. For example, there is a _web_placeholder_ module type, which is backed by an empty instance of 
`GenericWebApplicationContext`, to cover servlet modules which are present in _web.xml_ but not actually backed by any real module functionality.

`DelegatingContextLoader` could also be used for integrating with Impala specific frameworks which use a Spring application context in a very specialized way,
for example, through their own subclass implementations of `WebApplicationContext`. An example might be a framework such as Grails.

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/loader/ModuleLoaderRegistry.java ModuleLoaderRegistry] ===

A class which holds a mapping between module types and either a `ModuleLoader` or a `DelegatingContextLoader`.

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/loader/ApplicationContextLoader.java ApplicationContextLoader] ===

`ApplicationContextLoader` is responsible for the overall task of loading a module-specific `ApplicationContext` given a `ModuleDefinition` and parent. 
`ApplicationContextLoader` is not module type-specific. It has a broader responsibility. The default implementation, `DefaultApplicationContextLoader`
uses the appropriate type specific instance of `ModuleLoader` or `DelegatingContextLoader` to perform the actual module load.

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/monitor/ModuleChangeMonitor.java ModuleChangeMonitor] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/modification/ModificationExtractor.java ModificationExtractor] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/modification/ModificationExtractorRegistry.java ModificationExtractorRegistry] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/transition/TransitionProcessor.java TransitionProcessor] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/transition/TransitionProcessorRegistry.java TransitionProcessorRegistry] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/holder/ModuleStateHolder.java ModuleStateHolder] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/holder/ModuleStateChangeNotifier.java ModuleStateChangeNotifier] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/holder/ModuleStateChangeListener.java ModuleStateChangeListener] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/operation/ModuleOperation.java ModuleOperation] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/operation/ModuleOperationRegistry.java ModuleOperationRegistry] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/impala/source/browse/trunk/impala/impala-core/src/org/impalaframework/module/bootstrap/ModuleManagementFacade.java ModuleManagementFacade] ===

An internal interface which is used to access instances of other Impala-specific interfaces. Also extends `BeanFactory` so that it can access any Spring-configured Impala bean directly.
