#summary Migration to 1.0 RC2

One of the main features introduced with this release is support for Maven. In order to facilitate this, the default project structure has 
been changed, with the 'web' project split into two:
  * a 'host' project which contains static resources, files for configuring the Impala runtime (e.g. _moduledefinitions.xml_ and _impala.properties_),
  as well as certain top level configuration files, such as _web.xml_
  * a 'web' module, simply contains module specific files.
  
Previously, both of these sets of files were contained in the same project, which was not especially intuitive and potentially confusing.

To migrate from the previous project structure:

  * copy the existing 'web' project, and give it a name to make it clear that it will be used as the 'host' project.
  * in the 'host' project: 
    * remove the existing contents of _resources_, and move the contents of _webconfig_ into _resources_.
    * delete all classes apart from `StartServer`.
    * change the implementation of `StartServer` to point to the _context_ location in the 'host' project.
  * in the 'web' project:
    * remove the _context_ folder and _webconfig_ folder.
    * remove `StartServer` from the _test_ source folder.
    
The end result have only module-specific files in the 'web' project.

In addition, the 'build' project should be updated:

The _web.project.list_ value in _build.properties_ should be updated to point to the 'host' project, not the project containing the 'web' module.

{{{
web.project.list=example-host
}}}

Backward incompatible changes made from 1.0 RC1 to 1.0 RC2 include:


=== Issue 209 ===

In _impala.properties_, the property that was named `spring.path.mapping.enabled` has been changed to `top.level.module.path.enabled`
as this is a more correct descriptive name. Do a search and replace to correct this.

=== Issue 228 ===

Some of the functionality now present in the WebModuleBaseHandlerRegistration was previously present in a `RequestModuleMapper` implementation
called `TopLevelPathContainsModuleMapper`. This functionality has been removed.

=== Issue 230 ===

One of the module types in 1.0M6 was `servlet`. This module type has been renamed to `web` in Impala 1.0 RC1.
