#summary 1.0M6 Release Announcement

Impala 1.0M6 includes a full reworking of the Impala service registry implementation, as well as the mechanisms for exporting services to and
importing services from the service registry.

  * Configuration of Impala services is now much simpler as a new Spring `service` namespace has been provided for easily exporting and importing services.
  * Service export and import can now be done not only by name but also by type or by custom attributes, the latter using a model similar to that used in OSGi.
  * Impala's mechanism for proxying services obtained from the service registry has improved, and is now more easily configurable.
  * Impala now supports exporting and importing services based on Spring beans which are not singletons or not created using non-singleton Factory beans. It does this in a way that is totally transparent to users of the services.

The 1.0M6 also introduces a number of improvements to make dynamic module reloading more robust, particularly when using the module _auto-reload_ feature.

The full list of issues for milestone 1.0M6 is here:  http://code.google.com/p/impala/issues/list?q=label:Milestone-Release1.0M6&can=1.

Note that there are a number of package name and configuration changes in this release.
If you are upgrading from an earlier release, you will probably wish to check [Compatibility_1_0M6 the backward incompatible changes for 1.0M6].

If you like Impala and would like to support the project, please take a look at this page: http://code.google.com/p/impala/wiki/GetInvolved.