#summary Roadmap
#labels Featured

= Impala Roadmap =

The following gives an outline of some of the features which are envisaged. Features for 1.0 and beyond are up for consideration, based on the needs and contributions of users. 
  
These features have been implemented.

== Impala 1.0M6 ==
  
  * *Module plugins. Provide a packaging structure which will allow for chunks of reusable functionality to be packaged and deployed within a module, potentially using custom module type.
  * *Extensions to the Service registry API*, allowing for OSGi compatibility when exporting and looking up service registry (similar to OSGi).
  * *An Impala namespace* based on the Spring 2.0 namespace mechanism, providing simplified XML for declaring Impala-specific beans.
  * *Module class folders*, with additional module folder on file system to be optionally added to module class path for scripts, resources (e.g. templates) and even class files.

== Impala 1.0 ==

Some of the features will be delivered in intermediate milestones prior to the final 1.0. Most of these features should be included in the 1.0 release.
  
  * *Scala support*, with built in support in Impala build for compiling Scala classes.
  * *Groovy support*, with a simple mechanism for picking up Groovy scripts and exposing these as part of module functionality.
  * *Maven build support*, allowing Maven users to build Impala applications using Maven, and to structure projects according to Maven document structure conventions.
  * *Maven publishing*, with hosting of local Maven repository, and on demand publishing to public repository.
  * *More documentation*.
  
== Post 1.0 ==

These features are speculative, and are subject to refinement and review.
 
  * *Better OSGi support*, including support for web applications, easier OSGi integration testing, and better out the box OSGi deployment. 
  * *Extensions to JMX administration capability*. Currently, JMX can be used for certain administration functions. The idea would be to extend this capability, and also improve on the range and sophistication of JMX deployment options.
  * *_Whistle and bells_ samples*. Impala really shines when dealing with large applications with complex configuration requirements. It would be great to have a more advanced sample application which demonstrates it's capabilities. 
  * *Web administration tool* for visualising and administering modules at runtime.
  * *Support for various Spring bean scopes. Current support exists only for Spring singleton beans to be exported to and imported from Impala's service registry.
  * *IDE integration* (IntelliJ, Netbeans). Currently, Eclipse is explicitly supported, for example, in the documentation, samples and scaffolding. It would be good to provide support for IntelliJ, Netbeans and potentially JDeveloper.
  * *JUnit 4.0 support*. Specifically, the interactive test runner should be usable with JUnit 4.0-based tests. 
  * *Integration with Grails. Either with Impala embedded within Grails, Grails embedded within Impala, or both.
  * *Further web framework integration*. Target additional web frameworks not covered in 1.0 release.
  * *Further extensions to the JMX support.
  * *New deployment options, for example via Amazon's EC2 service.
  * *Eclipse plugin for interactive test runner.
  
-----

The following features have already been implemented in earlier releases.
  
== Impala 1.0 M1 ==

  * *Interactive test runner:* a Java main application which can load, update and reload modules, as well as run tests.
  * *Suite test runner:* support for efficient, rapid running of a suites of integration tests. 
  * *Simple scaffolding*, allowing building of new projects. See [GettingStarted Getting Started] for more deal.
  * *Eclipse web application runner* (using Jetty), allowing multi-module web applications to be developed without builds.
  * *War deployment build* - supporting creation of war files which can be deployed in a standard JEE application server or servlet container.
  * *Non-war deployment build* for Jetty - a specialised deployment structure with an embedded Jetty server.
  * *Internal refactoring* to remove wrinkles in architecture.
  * *Spring MVC integration* with support for multi-module, dynamically reloadable web applications being built using Spring MVC.
  * *JUnit 3.8* support, specifically in the interactive test runner.
  * *Automatic module updates* using a file system modification detector.
  * *Manual module updates* using JMX administration console.
  * *Deployment build* with automatic tagging of release versions.
  * *Ant-based build system* which can be used in Impala-based applications.
  
== Impala 1.0M2 ==

  * *Self-contained module definitions*, allowing module definitions to be specified internally within modules.

== Impala 1.0M3 ==

  * *Web framework integration*. allowing web applications using frameworks other than Spring MVC to be supported as first class Impala modules, with full reloading.
  * *Dynamic properties*, allowing typed properties to be injected into beans and dynamically updated without requiring module reloads.

== Impala 1.0M4 ==

  * *OSGi compliance*, allowing Impala jars to be used in an OSGi environment.
  * *Basic OSGi support*. Allowing Impala applications to be run on an OSGi container, with help from Spring DM.
  * *Graph class loaders*. The ability to specify modules arranged in a graph, allowing individual modules to depend on multiple modules rather than just a single parent.
  
== Impala 1.0M5 ==
  
  * *Support for alternative IoC containers*, allowing Impala to be used as a generalized dynamic module framework.
  * *Configuration and extensibility*, with improved mechanisms for allowing Impala to be easily configured and extended.  
  